So I consent to the research experiment, data gathering etc. Thank you, so how old are you? I'm 22. Okay, have you completed your degree? No, I am in the fifth year of my degree. Okay, what is your degree in? Computing Science. Okay, so it's already your fifth year. So I'm going to give you an explanation of the protocol, right? So in the next stage you will see different designs about a network protocol, but I'm going to have to give you an interview about this protocol what it is. So there's a network protocol in question, it's named ControlMAC and it's concerned with solving collisions to radio communications in a network. The network is made up of a gateway and a variable number of sensors and there is a limited number of channels that the sensor can use to transmit their messages which is typically much lower than the number of sensors. We're talking about like an on open air network so think of like actually radio transmissions okay. As an example think of 25 sensors and six request slots meaning that only six radio communications can happen at the same time. So you need a way to actually handle those collisions. Here's how it works. The gateway sends a message called RRM to all the sensors which contain the status of the six slots, basically indicating which slot was free, which means that no sensor actually picked it, had no contention, only one sensor picked it, and had a contention, more than one sensor actually picked it. The sensor then received this RRM message and randomly picked a slot, and by sending a transmission request message to the gateway indicating the slot that they chose. This is basically booking the slot, similar to restaurant reservation, so basically this is how you actually book it. Once a certain time has passed, the gateway analyzes all the transmission request messages and sends another RRM containing the status of the slots free no contention based on the previous cycle. The sensor read the RRM message received and if the pick slot had no collision right then they actually send their data on the request a separate channel right so it does not interfere with any of this logic. Continuing with the restaurant analogy basically they show up to the book table right if instead the slot had collision, what they do is they back off for a certain number of periods based on some computation of the number of the total collisions before trying for a slow again. You don't need to know the precise calculation, but there is one. This is basically to all network congestion. Similar to a restaurant reservation, if they say that they're fully booked, what you do is you wait some more days before you actually try to book a table. And the cycle then repeats. Just for clarification, the slots are just the bands, right? Because radio has a bunch of frequencies, just frequency bands? Yes. So you can assume that if, for example, sensor 0 and sensor 1 send their message at channel 5 and channel 6, at the same time they do not interfere, right? Yep. Cool. So was the protocol clear to you? Do you have any questions? I think it's clear. We basically have a central server which receives a bunch of requests saying, I want to send and then it says you can send or you can't send. Okay. And then if they can send they do and if they can't send they wait some period of time that you determine and then they try again. So now you're going to interact with one of the visualizations for this protocol. Note that the visualizations are prototyped and you might encounter a few bugs. You're only going to see the same set of animations for one particular simulation case, right? You have no way of changing that. This is for control purposes. I'm initially giving you three minutes to get accustomed to the animation controls. Let me start it up. Oh, thank you. That's a nice review. I'm going to give you a mouse actually. Oh that was my mouse. I even broke your mouse. No that's fine. I hid it off my bookshelf. That's fine. I'm going to give you a mouse so you don't need to get the lid down. Which simulation is this? It's fine. It doesn't matter. So you can take my chair. Wait. So I'm just experimenting with it? Yeah, yeah, right now you've got three minutes, so three, two, one, go. Alright, I'm going to generate the simulation. I'm going to zoom out. I think you haven't swapped your keys. I'm just going to play it and see what happens. So does the play just do one iteration? Cannot answer your question, sorry. Alright, it looks like the play only does one iteration. I understand what's happening. Okay, let's put this... message, I think. Yeah, our period was the request result thing. No, you cannot change that, please. Okay, don't change that. I changed the sense account. It doesn't work. Don't touch that. Because if you change that, then the animation changes. You can do generate simulation. Yeah, but I changed the sense account. No, you can't. It was six, right? Yeah, it was six. You can refresh the page anyway. Right, so it feels like once I play it, it does one iteration. And I would really like to be able to step through the number of iterations. So this one is showing me what has managed to transmit, what's stuck backing off and I'm not entirely sure about these two. But it feels like I would like to be able to go through like, you know you said the whole process. Sorry I don't know if I'm meant to be. That's fine you can do it. I feel like I want to be able to effectively go through a full iteration of the process by pressing a button and then see what it's like at the end of it and then go through another full iteration or alternatively be able to like step through these specific steps so I'm giving you now some tasks to complete right so first if you can restart the animation and let it play until the end generate this button when the animation is finished it doesn't go back to the place state okay good now rewind the animation up to the start Oh that just replays that. Now fast forward the animations so it can restart it again, fast forward that until all the sensors are sending data to the gateway. Okay, right, so I need to... There. Okay. Now, fast-forward the animation until you see the first sensor getting backed off for one turn. That looks like... It was at S1, right? There. Yeah, okay. So, now... I'm going to ask you some questions about this. So did the animation actually help you understand the protocol better? I think... kind of. I think that it's playing a bit too fast. And also I don't fully understand this kind of gateway bit at the top. the top because I think this is probably because s0 s1 s2 rests in the gateway at the end of the animation which is not something I was aware could happen maybe that's my understanding of the protocol but I thought that what would happen is it would just be when they send the is it the RRM is the like request the reservation yeah it's a request a prime message basically it's all the staff so So I thought that that would just be what sends to the gateway, is those. Okay. And I also, yeah. So which aspects of the protocol were easier to understand through a visualization? I think it's easier to understand the multiple backup thing and also the idle state, which I guess is when something actually manages to send, it goes into idle afterwards. sensors don't for example send a message every single cycle for example they might just send now but then they sleep for like six hours right so then were there any aspects of the visualization that you found confusing? I think it's too fast okay because for instance when you were asking for me to like fast forward stuff it's when I reset to the transmitting data it's like maybe two seconds. So I barely have time to even try to fast forward it. How easy is it to follow the sequence of events? I think it's the same as I said before, so it's easy enough to follow but it's too fast. Okay, did you feel the start, stop, rewind and fast forward buttons, these four, were useful for controlling the animation? I think they were use... they would be useful if it was an appropriate speed to use the fast forward and rewind. I think that there's a small issue with the start and stop animation button where it doesn't reset to the playable state and you have to double tap it. What additional information would you like to see displayed, if anything? I don't know if you would count it as information but I would like to be able to have sort of a timeline that I can scroll through as a time control so that that way I can with with the discrete stages is like markers on it and that way I could actually very easily check okay three different bits that's good so I'm gonna give I'm gonna do the same demo for the second animation so I'm gonna give you again three minutes of time to actually do them check it has any set yes okay so you have three minutes play around with it Alright, now I'm going to generate the simulation. This is the same protocol, right? Yeah, same animation. And that mostly makes sense. The one that doesn't make sense right now is the purple. So that's them requesting slots. So the problem must be... So that must be them trying to send... No. Okay, right. They all just managed to send in the first one. So data sent. And now we're all asking for things again. So these are each attempting to do two. and now 450 will clash and S1, S2 will clash so only S3 should send which is correct I assume that these are backing off according to whatever you have set and then S0 should send and then S1 and 2 should send in the next bit did that reset? Yeah, that reset for some reason. Okay, that all makes sense. I don't quite understand the graphs, but I think that's not something that you know from the two minute explanation. No. But yeah, that all makes sense. Okay. We can start with the task right now if you like. Yeah. Okay. So I'm going to give you the following task to complete. So stop the animation and restart if you're ready. And let it play until the end. Without fast forwarding or should I? Just let it play. Okay. Now rewind the animation up to the start. Fast forward the animation to all the sensors that are sending data to the gateway. Fast forward, just show me the actual frame. Like that? You mean? Yeah, just show me the actual frame. Whichever you think, all the sensors are actually sending the data to the gateway. data right so that's that one okay fast forward the animation till you see the first sensor getting backed off for one turn so I'm looking for one of the sensors having a little one under it oh I didn't notice that yeah that's one okay so that's good so did the animation help you to understand the protocol better yeah I think this was a better to visualization than the other one, just because, as I said with the other one, it was the actual gateway slots were confusing, whereas in this one it's very clear. It might benefit slightly from a legend saying the purple segment of the circle is the data being sent and the dots are the requests. That's nice, yeah. And I think it would still benefit from the timeline, but other than that, it's a better visualization, I think. Which aspects of the protocol were easier to understand through this visualization? Just all the interactions with the gateway. The only thing that I think would be slightly more challenging would be the back-offs being less clearly labeled. But if you know the protocol, then it's easy to infer. Okay. Did you actually notice that the backoff is here under the sensor? That's the number of? Yes. Okay, you didn't notice that. That's good. Are there any aspects of the visualization that you found confusing? Just the two things that I mentioned before. It can be a bit difficult to tell where you are in the timeline, like whether it's near the beginning, whether it's near the end. Okay. Then the thing is like working out, here's all the data sending. Okay. So do you find that, for example, like, having here, like, for example, this is, like, cycle zero, cycle one, cycle two, as you actually change through, will actually help you to understand more? Yeah, I think so. Okay. How easy is it to follow the sequence of events? Yeah, it's pretty easy. Maybe a bit fast, but, yeah, it's... I think it's much simpler. Okay. Did you feel the start, stop, rewind, fast forward buttons were useful for controlling the animation? Yeah, with the same caveat as the play button sometimes not working. Oh, it's a bug, yeah. What additional information would you like to see displayed? I think we already spoke about this. Yeah, just like a little timeline and like where you are in the number of iterations. So now, both of the animals have been shown. Which version would you prefer to use for learning purposes to interact with? I prefer the circle, I prefer the one where it's the gateways in the middle, and it's all the states distributed around it in a circle, and they send inwards, and then the gateway sends outwards. Okay. Which version would you prefer to be shown during a lecture? I think this version is still... Okay. Do you have any other suggestions that you would like on the simulation? I think I've made my suggestions too many times. Now I'm going to show you different possible design variations for this wireframe. So, these are, so imagine that, so these are the same variations, right? So, imagine that here in your big square is your preferred animation that you have. And these are the same controls, as you see, of all the graphs. Which ones do you think is visually more appealing? I like the usage of the space on the left one, I think. Just because the others feel kind of empty. And I think that having the bigger visualization could potentially be helpful. And then the graphs also seem more, not usable, but you can see them better. Okay. So the first and second one, the left and middle one, with the graphs underneath, I think are a lot more easy to look at the graphs than the one on the right. Okay. Because the one on the right, I would feel I want to have the biggest animation I can, but then I'd need to zoom out to be able to see the graphs. So, and which layout of those actually makes more sense to you? I think either the leftmost or the middle one both make complete sense. Okay, so I got one more question. This is mostly regarding to the actual simulation. So here for example you have... So I don't know if you noticed this, but here this is the complete log of the actual transmission, transmission, how it's actually simulated. And did you actually read or did you pay attention to this? I saw it and I understood that it was a log, but I found the visualization easy enough to understand that I didn't feel that I needed to read the log. OK. Were you interested in the actual time of the simulation? I don't think I was, but also I would have no idea what the actual times should be because I don't know enough about the space I can imagine that for somebody who is researching or learning or just in the space where this is something relevant to them for the times would be more important okay okay and that's it so if the interview is finished it only took 35 minutes that's actually fast ask if you have any questions do you have any questions I don't think so okay thanks to participant I mean you already have my contact information so if you have any questions like you need to be scratched for some reason you have no reason okay thank you thank you so much stop recording how big is the recording
