So how old are you? 23. Have you completed your degree? No. What is your degree in? Software Engineering. What year are you currently enrolled in? Fifth year. Okay nice. So in the next stage you will see different designs about a network protocol simulator. So the network protocol in question is named Control Mach and is concerned with solving collisions during radio communications in a network. The network is made up of a gateway and a variable number of sensors, and there is a limited number of channels that the sensor can use to transmit their messages, which is typically much lower than the number of sensors. As an example, think of 25 sensors and 6 request slots, meaning that only 6 radio communications can happen at the same time, meaning only 6 sensors can send their messages at a given time. So here's that works. So this is actually the explanation if you want to follow as I read. Yes, so... Hello? Okay, you don't get... you don't get wrap because they changed the... fuck's sake. Anyway, the gateway sends a message called RRM to all sensors which contains the status of the six slots, indicating if each slot was free, no sensor picked it, it had no contention, only one sensor picked it, and another contention, more than one sensor picked it. The sensors then receive this RRM message and randomly pick a slot by sending a transmission request message to the gateway indicating the slot that they chose. This is basically booking the slot, similar to a restaurant reservation. We assume that only due to number... Oh, that's fine. Once a certain time has passed, the gateway receives all those transmission requests and analyses all of them, and then sends another RRM containing the status of the slots. So whether each slot was free, whether each slot had no contention or had a contention. The sensor then reads this RRM message received, and if the picked slot had no collision, then then they actually send the data on the request to a separate channel. Continuing with the restaurant analogy, basically, oh, I did not read you the restaurant analogy. Okay, so basically when they book the slot, think of it as like a restaurant reservation. So for example, like you book like table six, and yeah, that's basically what they do. And once they actually, once the actual gateway responds, it basically sends off and says to them hey table six is free you can come in otherwise what they do is they say if the table was let's say occupied if there's no space what you do is that if you wait for a number of days before asking for a table again so this is basically what they do so yeah if you said the last lot had a collision they back off for a certain number of periods based on some computation of the number of of collisions before time is asking for a slot again so this is to avoid network congestion pretty much. Similar to restaurant reservation, if they say that they're fully booked, you wait some more days before you're asking again for a table. And the cycle then repeats. Was the protocol clear to you? Do you have any questions? So do they ask for a specific slot? Yeah. Yeah, yeah. There's a number and they say, yeah, one slot, five. So now you're going to interact with one of the visualizations for this protocol. that the visualizations are prototypes, so you might encounter a few bugs. You're only going to see the same set of animations for one particular simulation case. This is for control purposes so you will not be able to change any of the parameters. And I'm initially giving you three minutes to get accustomed to the animation controls. And then I'm going to give you some tasks to do. do the right one yes the right one okay you can do whatever you want So sensor count, initial notes, request loss, what was RRM again? Request reply message. This is the one that... Okay, so there's a gateway and there's these slots. There's six... Okay, wait, no, these are sensors. And then... Is there like a data channel? So the data channels are not in the... I cannot answer any questions, I've done the actual animation. So I just play around with it? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, okay, okay. Thank you. No, you cannot change it up. Okay, no. Please do not. Thank you. You got 10 seconds. Okay, time has expired. So now I'm going to give you some tasks to complete and basically you need to tell me when they're actually done. So start the animation and let it play until the end. Okay. Cool. Okay. You think it's done? Yes. Okay. So now rewind or restart the animation after the start. What? Yeah, it's got a few rough edges. Well, I restarted it and then I played it again. Okay, okay. So now you need to start and stop the animation when you see all the sensors are sending data to the gateway. Okay. All of them? Yes. Okay. Like when they all already sent it? When they're in the moment of sending the data. Okay. Here. Okay. But this is like a lucky case. Did I understand it correctly? Yes. Now, you start and stop the animation until you see the first sensor, the first in terms of the one that you see, not the first in terms of the index, getting backed off. Getting backed off, ok. None of them did, right? You need to tell me. Ok, like these one, these three are getting backed off. Ok. Is that correct? So... What do you mean by backed off? The gateway tells them that they can't use the slot that they requested. Backed off means that they wait before something is... before they send something else. Okay, so... then... wait, not now. You don't... that's fine, that's fine. So, did the animation help you to understand the protocol better? Yes, I'd say so. What aspects of the protocol were easier to understand through this visualization? Probably the fact that they send a... they request a slot, and if it's not available, the gateway sends it back. Instead of like... and then they send another one instead of sending the data. and since the shape of the object that moves is different, you can see the difference between slots, like sensors sending data, or the ones that are still waiting, let's say. But are there any aspects of this visualization that you found confusing? I think the log could be, I mean, I don't know what the intended audience is, but I feel like the log can be a bit confusing. And maybe, because I'm assuming this is like more, the same information as the one you see, but more fine grained and stuff. So maybe it can be hidden by default. So if someone wants to see it, they see it. If not, then it doesn't confuse them. And then maybe, I didn't like if I if I maybe spend more time with it I'll understand but I didn't immediately understand how changing all of these will affect this okay and I guess maybe as as much as possible it would be good to have a graph like a graphic counterpart to all of them like a channel maybe it would be to like see that there is a channel between them if i understand correctly okay or like data slots per channel um yeah i guess i don't really so would that be like maybe like two lanes like that uh i didn't really explain this to you but um yeah it's fine you don't need to know about this um did you feel that the start stop rewind fast forward buttons were useful for controlling the animation? Yeah, they were. I didn't really understand these two. And I think that maybe it would be good to get some feedback when you press them to see that it's been restarted and stuff. What additional information, if anything, would you like to see displayed? maybe maybe when the when the sensor is like waiting okay it could be it could be shown like some some sort of graphic element could be shown on the sensor okay to see that it's like blocked in a way okay okay that's it now we need to the second one. Let me change it. Can you stay for like five more minutes? I think it's a good one, yes. Ok, now, give me three minutes again to get accustomed to the animation. I'm going to put it in the fridge for a while. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, you good? Okay. So, okay. Ok, so now I'm giving you the following task to complete. Mention when you actually think it's finished. Start the animation and let it play until the end. Ok. So, just... It should be the end, that's it. Now rewind or restart the animation after the start. Start the animation and stop it when you see all the sensors are sending data to the gateway. Data to the gateway... Well, they sent another... Getting it back. Now start and stop the animation until you see the first sensor getting backed off for one turn. Yes, there. Okay, so did this animation help you to understand the protocol better? Yes. So, let's see. I think when it gets to, like, this final state, I don't really... So, is this just, like, a turn is finished? I can answer any questions. Okay. So, I think yes, but I don't know if I'm super clear with the back off. Okay. and yeah I think I'm not sure I fully understand what I guess a back off is that a sensor is put on hold for a given time and I guess that happens when they send a slot that that's not free but at the same time I guess like when this finishes in this state I don't really understand what like when this happens I guess like if this is like a turn or you know so I guess maybe like yeah was it me that has not explained it correctly or was it just the animation that has not does not display it properly I think maybe it would be it would be better to like in the animation to see like what what sort of like time period or what sort of like turn or whatever we're in like okay and if you can continue from here like to see what happens afterwards from this state then it would probably help as well okay well aspects of the protocol were easier to understand through this visualization probably probably the fact they get put in the back off aspect of it. Yeah, because I guess it wasn't displayed in the other one. Was it? Maybe. Was there any aspect of the visualization that you found confusing? I think, let's see. No, I think same thing with the log, And then maybe like, so this, I'm assuming this is like the two data slots per channel, these two things. If it is so, maybe they can be labeled. How easy is to follow the sequence of events or hard? No, it's pretty easy, apart like what I said before, seeing what happens afterwards. Did you feel the start, stop, rewind, fast forward buttons were useful for controlling the animation? Yeah, same as before. What additional information would you like to see displayed if anything? I guess yeah, more labeling of what happens. So now both demos have been shown, so which version would you prefer to use for learning purposes to interact with? I think the first one if it was enhanced a bit it's like more clear in a way maybe this one more with more like labeling it would be more powerful. Okay. Yeah did you need to choose one of them? Yeah. It's been the hell to actually hear it both. So which version would you prefer to be shown during a lecture? During a lecture? So I think they maybe show different aspects of it. And maybe this one is more focused on the status of each sensor at any given time, while the other one is more like the status of the whole system. So I guess maybe this would be more useful to maybe teach about what the sensors are doing at any given time at the same time, and the other one maybe more about the gateway. It seems like this one is more sensor-centric, and the other one is more gateway-centric. So I guess it probably depends on what you want to focus on more. Do you have any other suggestions that you would like in the simulation that you actually preferred? You prefer both in some cases, so feel free to suggest anything. Well, for anything... You don't need to, that's fine. Uh-huh. Okay, okay, so now I'm going to show you different designs variations for for animation Almost in the end. There's a couple minutes more So imagine that your preferred animation is at the big square here depending on what you want to see and the controls are pretty much the same so between all these three right the one to the right is the one that you currently have used for both sets which one do you think has more visually appealing probably the one on the left okay so the one okay there's less like blank space things seem to fit in more and the actual like the central aspect of it is bigger okay which layout of the information makes the most sense to you okay so okay the interview is finished do you have any questions okay thank you and and you already have my contact details
