 Okay let's start. So that's fine. It's all gonna be transcripted but it's gonna change. How old are you? That's a really good question. I think I'm 22. Have you completed your degree? No. Okay what is your degree in? Self-Engineering. What year are you going to enroll in? 15. Okay so I'm gonna give you like an explanation explanation of the protocol now for the simulator that you're actually going to see. So the network protocol in question is named ControlMAC and is concerned with solving collisions during radio communications and our network, right? So we're talking about open air network in this case, so little sensor with the little antennas. The network protocol in question is named ControlMAC and is concerned with, okay, I already said that. The network is made up of a gateway and a variable number of sensors. Okay. And there is a limited number of channels that the sensor can use to transmit their messages, which is typically much lower than the number of sensors. As an example, think of 25 sensors and 6 request slots, meaning that only 6 radio communications can happen at the same time. So here's how it works, and there's also a description here if you want to read. I think I do. While I... but here's how it works. So basically like... Oops. So basically like, so the gateway sends a message, right, called RRM to all the sensors, which contain the status of the six slots, indicating every slot was free. So it means no sensor actually picked it, had no contention, only one sensor picked it, I had a contention which means more than one sensor actually picked it. What happens next is that the sensor then receives this RRM message, right, and randomly pick a slot by sending a transmission request message to the gateway, indicating the slot that they choose for the transmission. So think of it as booking their slot, kind of similar to a restaurant reservation. Once a certain time has passed, the gateway receives all those messages, analyzes all of them, and sends another RRM containing the status of the slots, free, no contention, or contention, based on which I have. So every round of sending, you know, it's RRM, chum, RRM? Yes, yes. The sensor reads the RRM message received. And if their picked slot had no collision, then they actually send their data on the requested separate channel, right? So this happens on, this whole communication happens on one channel, but the actual data transmission happens on separate channels. This is what the request slot signify. Continuing with the restaurant analogy, basically they show up to the books table, right? So you're saying that they're booking slots for the communication channel, but they're not doing that through any communication channel? No, they're usually doing this through this channel, which actually is... Like the RM messaging back and forth? That is a different slot they're booking, obviously, no? Because you need to allow for that. Yeah, so the slots they're booking, those are six channels only for data. Okay, okay. Because here in this logic they don't send any data, the data is only sent through the actual separate channel. So if we send this lot of other collisions, right, they back off for a certain number of periods based on some computation of the number of the total collisions before asking for a slot again. You don't need to know the computation, but there is a computation for this back off time. This is basically to avoid network congestion, right. So basically similar to a restaurant reservation, if they say that they're fully booked, right? What you do, you might wait some more days before you actually try again and ask for another table. Then the cycle repeats. And over again, okay. Yeah, it continues again. Was the protocol clear to you? Do you have any questions? I think it's pretty clear. If I have any technical questions, it would be mainly about how like the... So everything, all of this stuff relating to like the slots and the data and the backend, that makes a lot of sense. I would say maybe questions around like how this communication happens, like when the RRM message is sent and when it receives an answer back for census booking, I think. Like is that all done through one port with a big buffer or like how are the messages distinguished and received there? This is more of a technical discussion. So what happens is that basically, this is more like a technical answer, but all this communication happens on a single channel and it's basically time based, right? So you can think of this as, so the time is divided between request periods, right? Which is basically, think of it like half a second. So what happens is that at the start of this half second period, this RRM message is sent, within this the sensor actually receive it and within this 500 milliseconds they need to actually send their transmission request message right okay but to which port do they send it? they just send it to the one that's from the same frequency yeah I guess yeah this is not TCP by the way like it's much simpler than TCP there's no port everything is just on air okay basically you distinguish message based on their frequency and then the So this is basically just different frequency parts? Yes, yes. Okay, makes sense. This is much, much simpler than TCP or any networking protocol. Okay, so now you're going to interact with one of the visualizations for this protocol. Note that the visualizations are prototypes and you might encounter a few bugs. You're only going to see the same set of animations for one particular simulation case. So this is for control purposes. And I'm initially giving you three minutes to get accustomed to the animation controls. So I'm just gonna do a... I can increase the brightness if you want. Right, let me see. Set your account, data channels, data slots per channel. Data slots per channel. That's how much data can be sent in one channel at a single time? No, I can't answer any questions. Request nodes, RRM period, mic cycle 7, sensor, measurement, chan, what the fuck? C, okay, shoot, general simulation. Damn, so sexy. Oh sorry, refresh the page, can you go here to zoom? Where? Click there, yeah, increase the zoom because Alistair changes. Yeah, this is how it's original, perfect. You should label things, you know? Okay, I will transition data, sure. So then this would be what? Next step in theory? Oh, there you go. Nothing happened. Oh, okay. Nothing happened. Oh, maybe for parts of... Because these are... I think it's bad. What the... What the f*** did happen? Okay. Could I ask you to refresh the page by the way? Oh, does it again. Sorry, this is... Yeah, no... No, no, I didn't know. Yeah, this is better, yeah. Okay, yeah, I see. Yeah. OK, sure. I think I understand what's going on. Right. Sure, let's just increase the data. It's not for channel. See what that does. Oh, no, you don't. Can you please not change that? Too late. No, it's fine. because it's for control purposes Okay, I changed it to 6, go back to 2 You can refresh it Ah, it just reset, right? Yeah, yeah Anyways, yeah, sure I mean, more or less comfortable, I guess Okay, if you're okay, we can proceed with the actual task Yeah, sure Okay, so now I'm gonna ask you I'm giving you the following task to complete And you tell me when it's actually completed So, start the animation and let it play until the end Yeah, yes. Can you refresh? No. Oh, my, my. Go back and refresh, okay. What the hell is happening? Hold on. I think every button is not working. No, it should. I think it's, um, just gonna restart it just in case. Yeah, it won't. Probably got bugged out. It's a bit wonky called because I had a bit of a rush. Did the charm rolls is too? Do you want to check the log? Wait, let me actually do that. Okay, now it works. So I'm going to give you the following task. Start the animation and ready play until the end. Okay, rewind the animation up to start. I mean it's playing right, but I guess I'll stop it. That's a bit annoying. You think that's done? I mean I can do this. Okay. Is that okay? No, no, every time I do this it plays enough. Anyways. Fast forward animation until all the sensors are sending data to the gateway and stop it once it's actually at that stage. Do they send data to the gateway? Like that? No, no, here. There, that's it. Okay. Fast forward the animation until you see... or stop it. Once you see the first sensor getting backed off for one turn. That was it. Okay. So, the demo was finished. So, did the animation actually help you to understand the protocol better? No. Okay. That is good. Which aspects of the protocol were easier to understand the visualization? I'm not sure. Okay, okay. Were there any aspects that you found confusing? Yeah, so. Tell me. There's no labels on anything, right? Okay. I don't know that this is slots, I mean imagine these are slots, but why are there two gateways? Like, where did I specify two gateways here? I don't know. There's slots for Chan. I'm confused. I don't think these are sensors, what is this number, transmitting data, back of one, back of two, like what, like I'm adding in seconds, but you know, what the fuck is this, I understand all of these words, this has no axis, this has no hex axis, okay. Also the other thing is that this moves very quick and I think that's fine. Okay. I think it should be, how do you explain it, it should be more like, I think the animation is It's very smooth and very good actually. I think it should be a bit easier to start and stop between cycles. Maybe you have a little pause there, or maybe when you skip around you do it like... ...rather than... So stepped. Yeah, you do it stepped for the skipping around. Otherwise, the controls I think are fine. I mean, the GUI and all the design of it looks very good and it's very smooth. I think like, yeah, it's just those things. I was also thinking that... Yeah, this is not exactly how you would visualize it happening in reality. Because you don't see the tower, you don't see the sensor, you see like... steak changes. How is it hard as to follow the sequence of events? They're very fast. So I'd say it's kind of hard because of that. If it was slower, I think it makes more or less sense. It's a bit confusing, like, while things are flying around. I mean, I'm guessing it's a request going and then coming back. It's a bit confusing, right? Because transmitting data is a request, but it's not pictured. Like, the only thing that I picture here are requests about, like, how to send data. I don't know. I think it's easy, but it's not easy. It's possible, but I wouldn't say it's like reintuitive. Did you feel that the start, stop, rewind, fast forward buttons were useful for controlling the animation? I think so, but I think especially starting with wine, because I mentioned so fast, you're okay with waiting or getting back up when you wanted, but I think they're skipping around if it was easier, like done. Okay. What additional information, if anything, would you like to see displayed? I don't think any additional information is needed. I just think that, mmmm, explanations are different things like this, that, this, you know? And then, if you didn't have the explanation previous about the protocol, it would be very confusing. Okay. Like, I think it's the way that you display, like, I think you should show physically what this looks like. Okay, yes. So, thank you. Now we can proceed to the second animation. So, let me just... Are you sure you're good? Yeah, I know. I know. Alistair said the same. I also tried the rest of the... I saw the blonde guys. What? Blonde. What are you talking about? Yeah, yeah. There's two people called Alistair. Yeah. So this is the second animation. Let me check. Yeah, this is the second one. I'm just gonna restart the front end just to be 100% sure it's not one of those problems. Okay, so I'm giving you three minutes again to get accustomed to this animation and then we can receive your tasks. Okay, can I change things? No. Okay. I'm accustomed to that. Okay, already? Yeah. Okay. Okay, let's proceed to the tasks. Now I'm going to give you the following tasks to complete. Start the animation and let it play until the end. There. Ok. Rewind the animation up to the start. That's it. Ok. Fast forward the animation. Ok. Stop until all the sensors are sending data to the gateway. No. Yeah, I know. That one. That's it. Ok. Fast forward the animation until you see the first sensor getting backed off for one time. I restarted it. That was mine. Ah, for fuck's sake. Yeah. One of those times. I hate to tell you which one. Stop at the screen. I know it's buggy, but you can spam that one and this will work. This happens, they request slots. They send data. And now one's gonna get backed off. No, they request slots again. and I wanna know these are two of them ok, that's nice ok, so now we're gonna proceed with the demo sorry, the interview on this demo did this animation help you to understand the protocol better? yes which aspects of the protocol were easier to understand through the visualization? What each sensor is trying to do and how the gateway communicates with them. So I think what was easier to understand was what's happening, but necessarily the message of the gateway. Because for example, this is easy to understand. This, it doesn't, like you should say data or something. I don't know if it's data. Backing off, maybe put something that says like one timeout or something. I don't know what the state of these are in. I see a 1 there, but you know. So I imagine that means they're backed up for a 1. And then when it does the bium, that thing... Yeah. Yeah, I don't know what it is. The RRM, that's the RRM. I mean, that's the RRM, right? But I already forgot what the content of the RRM was. So I don't know what it's saying. Okay. These two are backed up, I guess, this time, but you know. Okay. Were there any aspects that you found confusing? Same thing, same thing. And then, I mean, they just create data. So you mean the graphs? The graphs make like, yeah, I mean... I don't know what FTR means, I don't know, this makes no sense. Yeah, I didn't explain that to be honest. How is this to follow the sequence of events? I say it's pretty easy. I say this one is easier than the other one, for sure. Did you feel the start, stop, rewind, fast forward buttons were useful for controlling animation? I'd say so, I think as I said, like you know, we give like one second sort of leniency or something like that. Okay. But, so, same reason for the other one, I think they're useful definitely, but I think like they require too much speed to like use them properly. Yes. What additional information would you like to see displayed, if anything? As I said, content of RRM is just saying data. This may be saying that it's packed up for one second, so I just haven't won. Okay. So, both demos have been shown. Now I'm just going to ask you questions about both of the demos. I don't have much time. Yeah, that's fine. Just a few questions. Which version would you prefer to use for learning purposes to interact with? Okay. Which version would you prefer to be shown during a lecture? This one. Okay. Do you have any other suggestions that you would like to see on the simulation that you prefer? I don't think the mergers are exclusive, you could just have one and then the other under. What's that? Is it there? You could just have this and then this under. I don't think they're exclusive, I think this is better for an introduction, but the other one helps understanding. So now I'm going to show you wireframes for different possible design variations. We're almost finished, probably going to take a couple minutes more. So these are possible design variations. So imagine that at the center, black, gray square, it's your preferred animation, right? Okay. And all of these are just basically pretty much the same, just like your various... Yes. So which one do you think is more visually appealing between these? This one. Okay. Which layout of information makes the most sense to you? This one. Okay. interview is finished. Do you have any questions? No, no. Okay, thank you. You already have my content details, you already have my phone number, so if you'd like your participation to be revoked, you can contact me at any time. And yeah, that's it. Thanks, man. Yeah, no worries.
