 Okay, so how old are you? I'm 24. Have you completed your degree? Yes. What is your degree in? Integrated Masters in Computer Science. Well, so you're not enrolled. I'm not enrolled anymore, I'm an alumni. Okay, okay, okay. So in the next stage you will see different designs about a a network protocol simulator. The network protocol in question is named ControlMAC and is concerned with solving collisions during radio transmissions in a network. The network is made up, we're talking about like a radio network. So the network is made up of a gateway and a variable number of sensors. And there is a limited number of channels that the sensor can use to transmit their messages, which is typically much lower than the number of sensors. As an example, think of 25 sensors and 6 request slots. So that means only 6 radio communications can happen at the same time. And this protocol, you need to find a way to actually resolve these collisions. Are we talking about physical sensors? Yes, yes. So you have a big antenna, which is your gateway, and then you have a smaller sensor that, for example, they are attached to a tank, and they, for example, sense the level of the water. and if the level of the water goes above a certain, you activate a pump, for example. So they send the messages and say, oh, the level has gone beyond X. And yeah, so you need to find a way to solve these collisions, right? Okay. And here's how it works. So the gateway sends a message, which is called RRM, request reply message, into all sensors, which contains the status of the six slots, indicating if each slot was free, which means no sensor picked there, had no contention, only one sensor picked it, or had a contention when the one sensor picked it. The sensor then received this error message and randomly picked a slot, right, by sending a transmission request message to the gateway, indicating the slot that they chose. This is basically booking that slot, right, similar to a restaurant reservation, So basically like Skype calling to address and asking for a table, right? Random. You don't know which table you get. You just ask for a table. Once a certain time has passed, the Gateway analyzes all those transmission request messages received and sends another RRM. It's like the same as the one that was sent before, containing the status of the slots. Whatever each slot was free, whatever each slot had no contention or whatever had a contention, right? Is this similar to the basic HTTP protocol when you send a request and you get an answer response, like an OK response? Is this a similar concept? Yes, but the key difference is that when you send an HTTP request, right? Basically, it's like from sender and transmitter, you only have one. Here, it's open-ended. You send a transmission via cable, but via a small antenna, so everybody can see what you're sending. So, yeah, it's kind of... More like a radio. Yeah, this is radio protocol, right? So it's very simple messages. There's no TCP and shaker. It's all very easy. There's no encryption, nothing. Just sends bytes over there. And the messages are very small as well. So what happens then that the sensor then reads this RRM message, right? Received. And if the PIC slot had no collision, then what they actually do, they send their data on the requested separate channel, which is the one that they booked right continuing with the restaurant analogy basically they show up to their booked table okay if instead the slot had a collision they back off for a certain number of periods based on some computation of the number of the total collisions before asking for a slot again this is a complex calculation that goes on for the back off you don't need to know that but just so you know that there is this is basically to avoid network congestion similar to a restaurant reservation if they say that they are fully booked right what you do you wait some more time before asking again for a table. Okay. And then the cycle then repeats. Okay. Was the protocol clear to you? Do you have any questions? I think more or less it's okay. Okay. Now you're going to interact with one of the visualizations for this protocol. I'm initially giving you three minutes to get accustomed to this animation control and then I'm gonna give you some tasks to complete. Alright, do I get any extra explanation or should I explore on my own? You explore on your own. Okay, very well. Ah yeah, don't change any of that because those are kept for control purposes. Can I press F12 and see what's going on with the background? What? No, I'm not going to see how you actually did this. Let's see, some countdown date. Ah, no, sorry, I forgot. Sorry, I forgot to say this. You're going to interact with one of the visualizations for this protocol. Note that the visualizations are prototypes and you might encounter a few bugs. You're only going to see the same set of animations for one particular simulation case. This is for control purposes. And I'm initially giving you three minutes to get custom to the animation controls. So yeah. Okay. Because that was the older version that you straight to you. Yeah, you can go on. All right, sensor count, data channels, data slots per channel, request slots, RRM period, max cycle, census measurement chance, seed 226. Okay, generate the simulation. That's our six. Bye, bye. A bunch of logs. I call none of these are clickable. I just want to see FTR and measurement of anything else. It's FTR values. What are FTR values? Cannot answer any questions. Okay. Uh, measurement latences. Uh oh, volume time series. Distribution of measurement latences. I see. You can use the mouse if you want. It's alright. You can use the mouse on my tie. Okay. Right, I think that's... Yeah, okay, I think I've had enough of the... Okay. Let me reset this. Okay, cool. I'm giving you the following task to complete. So start the animation and let it play until the end. And let me know once you think it's done, like the task that I give to you. I think it's now done. Okay. Rewind the animation up to the start. I ain't seeing a teeth. Just restart it. I think the best way to do it is to reset it. What is it that I'm evaluating here, by the way? am I routing the UI? Don't worry about it. Okay, anyway here's your restart. Okay, fast forward, like okay no, stop, start the animation and stop it until all the sensors are sending data to the gateway. here yeah I mean they're all sending okay um fast forward start animation stop it until you see the first sensor getting backed off for one turn this is the back off what it does explain what the back office okay so you have so what you have the editor message right which is sent by from the gateway right and what basically happens if there is a congestion which means two cents have picked that slot right one of them goes over in in time off in time out right just like back off same same turn okay so it basically like skips one turn okay you have all the time in the world until one of them gets backed off the first one yeah first one that you see I think here we have two of these guys missing. Okay. Okay. Did the... Okay, now we're done with this animation. Did the animation help you to understand the protocol backup? No, I still don't know the difference between this slot thing and this little arrow thing. Okay, that is good to know. So now this is finished. This is the data message, which is actually the data. This is the transmission request. So this is booking the slot and this is them actually like sending the data. That's why if you rewind to the start, right? I don't think your rewind buttons are working. Yeah, it's a bit buggy. But if you rewind to the start here. Yes, the first text sends this thing with the slot. Here, these are all different. Yes. One, two, five, three, zero, four. This is the RRM and then here they all send. Okay, that is the messages. Yeah, that's why you have the cycle. Okay, so it's like the reservation and then the arrow is actually them sitting on the table. Now you see five five. So one of those two will get back on. I will say they move too quickly so that you can like, if you don't like pause it all the time, you can like, you don't have the time to read this. Yeah, yeah, that is good to know. So which aspects of the protocol were easier to understand through the visualization? I think it's good to understand that there is, first of all, two types of signals that get sent to the gateway, right? So how you have the slot reservation and then the actual data load. Yeah. So you can definitely see how there is two different ones. Okay. And then you can also see how there is a change to the data as well whenever two slots have been picked. and if we now do this one of them is going to be larger so we have one kind of large we now have a mix between the data load and the slots as well but I would say there are still some improvements that can be made yeah how easy is to follow the sequence of events? it's okay but I think it moves a little bit too quickly because it's okay for the data load but then for the slots it moves so quickly that I cannot read the numbers if I don't pause it. So if it just goes by, it's a bit too quickly, so I would reduce the speed. Okay. Did you feel the start, stop, rewind, fast forward buttons were useful for controlling the animation? Yes, the start and stop one is useful. The fast forward and the rewind, they need to be debugged. They do work but they only work when you actually start anyway. What additional information would you like? Yeah, now it's stopped. So do a reset, generate. What does it mean? It should be running. Yeah, you see? It gets rewind. Wait, do I have to keep pressing on it? No, no, look. That's what goes up to the start. So you have to continuously click on it. That is not intuitive. I know. Because one rewinds up to one second. So it rewinds like five seconds. Yeah, it rewinds like one turn, one cycle. I see. So what additional information would you like to see displayed? Let's see. If any. Let's see, what do I want to see? I mean, first of all, more clarity in terms of the skip buttons. But that's okay. It could be outside of your control as well. I think what would be useful is for the data load, maybe have a little like, you know, a little like text underneath it to say this is data. And like similar to how you have the slots here, because this is useful information. but then if you didn't say about the data, I would not have guessed that the arrows represent the data. Everyone said this, by the way, which is very funny. So, okay. So, I'm getting the laptop, but I'm gonna show you the second set of animation and we're gonna be doing the same thing. So as usual, three minutes and yeah. Okay. . Can I play around with this? No. Am I going to break it if I play around? No, it's for control purposes. Once it's done, you can play around all you want. Oh hell yeah. Right, okay, anyway, yeah, that's enough of it. Okay. I'm familiar enough with this. Okay, now I'm giving you the following tasks to complete. Let me know once you're done. So start the animation and replay until the end. Okay. Okay. That's the end of it. Rewind or restart the animation up to the start. This is not giving enough user feedback over here. I have rebound this time. Okay, okay, okay. Fast forward, oh no, stop, start animation and stop it until all the sensors are sending data to the gateway. Bam. Okay. Fast, ah fuck, start animation until, and stop it until you see the first sensor getting backed off for one turn. I think it's this but this is ambiguous. The slot 5 is a bit ambiguous. Okay. I think this is it. Okay, so this is done. Mm-hmm. Did this animation help you to understand the protocol better? Let's see. First of all, I'm a bit confused why we have now two sets of the slots. So rather than six slots, we now have 12 slots for some reason. This makes it more confusing. okay um i can definitely appreciate the more um kind of the the part with the idle with the transmitting data with backup so you understand which state the which state the animation is in okay uh this i will say is a little bit nicer than um uh than the year than the first simulation and again the for my taste the the balls or whatnot they are moving too quickly yeah um so it's a little bit again a little bit hard to like remember the numbers so if i maybe i could suggest to you uh maybe having different colors for them to color code them okay um just so that it's so that it's so you can immediately see what it is or make them move slower okay um another thing I'm confused about is having this little one here in some of the values. Does this have to do with the backoff? Let me do this again. I think it has to do with the backoff. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, so the little one has to do with the backoff, but then I realized that not immediately, but after analyzing this a little bit more. And yeah, but I like also like the idea where it's like transmitting the data. So this is the, and this makes it a bit more obvious. Okay. Which aspects of the protocol are easier to understand through the visualization? I mean, as I just said, the transmission of data. Yeah. Because this time you don't have the little arrows, which are, which are, don't know what that might be. Okay. And yeah, I will say that it's also easier to understand what the backoff represents because in the previous simulation, the backoff just means that there's a lack of, that the gate is not doing anything. Okay. Was there any aspect of the visualization that you found confusing? well as i just said we have two sets of six for the gates and the gateway um that makes it more confusing again the fast uh the fast movement speed uh that it does not give you enough time to read the numbers of the um of the actual of the sensors or not gates i said gates are there sensor so and yeah that's about it how easy or hard is to follow the sequence of events I would say it's a bit tough again due to the speed so I will slow it down did you feel the start stop rewind fast forward buttons were useful for controlling the animation I think now that I got I got a hang of it it's easier than before but then again having to press multiple times onto the rewind button is not intuitive. What additional information, if anything, you would like to see displayed? A tutorial for the buttons, an explanation of how it has to be running to be able to fast forward or to rewind. And what else was those? Also, just a nice, maybe a better explanation about the back-off, but I think this is within the experiment design and not within the simulation design. Yeah. So, okay, so the section is finished, we're almost towards the end. And which version between this one and the first one that you saw would you prefer to use for learning purposes to interact with? personally i prefer the second version this one yes this one um because i like the state i like how it explains the states properly or how it shows them um again i would i would remove like these like 12 gates because this makes things worse um the initial simulation does look nicer but then if you come into it and you don't understand like myself i'm not a network person this is the first time I'm hearing about this kind of concept so I like the background knowledge if I think given the background knowledge and that you know what the different if you maybe if you have like oh another thing that I would maybe add is like a little legend so for the previous simulation right where you have like um you know like where you have like the I know the the little arrow saying like a legend which says like maybe like displaying at the bottom of the screen so you can always look at it or maybe over here actually where it says like okay this symbol represents you know the data, this symbol represents just like the initial signal, that would be very much helpful so that even someone who doesn't know anything about this when they look at it they can get a rough idea of what's going on. Okay, so now which version would you prefer to be shown during a lecture? The second one, so the one we're currently looking at. Okay, do you have any other suggestions that you would like on the simulation that you preferred? I already spoke about them but... I have no further comments. Okay, so now I'm going to show you possible design variations for the simulation. Oh, it's so long to load. prepared that in advance. Ah, that's fine. The CPU is fast enough. That's so warm. See, you're tight. That's warm. Yeah, you're tight as well. Um... Yes. Okay, so now I'm going to show you different descent variations. Imagine that you prefer... Imagine that your preferred animation is at the big square, so this one in the middle. Which one do you think is more visually appealing between these three? That one is not currently interesting. Yeah, this is the current one. Yeah. I like the one in the middle with the graph underneath. Okay. Which layout of information makes the most sense to you? How is the design? How is this question different from the previous one? I don't know. I don't know. I mean the layout of the information will be within for example the logs can I can at this point can I offer a suggestion yeah go ahead I would put the the controls like for the play buttons and such actually directly underneath of the simulation okay so that it reminds you of something like a video because this is something which is which is a familiar concept to others because this way in all of these um you know in all of the three variants because the play buttons are underneath the logs it actually looks like the play buttons are uh for the logs as opposed to for the simulation that is not intuitive so either i would suggest to either put the play buttons underneath the box or on top of it so that you can have a clear kind of you understand what it refers to okay so thank you so interview is finished i ask you if you have any questions yes can you make the play buttons work properly and put them in a in an intuitive place i said questions very well and no i do not have questions thank you and you already have my contact information so yes i i expect to see the dissertation about this yeah okay right thank you for the
